---
title: Wind preset
description: The Tailwind CSS / Windi CSS compact preset for UnoCSS (@unocss/preset-wind).
outline: deep
---

# Wind preset

The Tailwind CSS / Windi CSS compact preset for UnoCSS.

[Source Code](https://github.com/unocss/unocss/tree/main/packages/preset-wind)

::: info
This preset inherits [`@unocss/preset-mini`](/presets/mini).
:::

## Installation

::: code-group
  ```bash [pnpm]
  pnpm add -D @unocss/preset-wind
  ```
  ```bash [yarn]
  yarn add -D @unocss/preset-wind
  ```
  ```bash [npm]
  npm install -D @unocss/preset-wind
  ```
:::

```ts
// uno.config.ts
import { defineConfig } from 'unocss'
import presetWind from '@unocss/preset-wind'

export default defineConfig({
  presets: [
    presetWind(),
  ],
})
```

::: tip
This preset is included in the `unocss` package, you can also import it from there:

```ts
import { presetWind } from 'unocss'
```
:::

## Rules
The primary goal of this preset is to provide compatibility with [Tailwind CSS](https://tailwindcss.com/) and [Windi CSS](https://windicss.org/). It should be noted that complete compatibility may not be guaranteed. Please refer to their [documentation](https://tailwindcss.com/docs) for detailed usage.

For all rules and presets included in this preset, please refer to our <a href="/interactive/" target="_blank">interactive docs</a> or directly go to the [source code](https://github.com/unocss/unocss/tree/main/packages/preset-wind).

## Differences from Tailwind CSS

### Quotes

Using quotes in the template (the files intended to be processed) is not supported due to how the extractor works. E.g. you won't be able to write `before:content-['']`. For these cases, you may prefer to introduce a new utility that you can explicitly set such as `class="before:content-empty"`.

## Differences from Windi CSS

### Breakpoints

| Windi CSS | UnoCSS |
|:--|:--|
| `<sm:p-1` | `lt-sm:p-1` |
| `@lg:p-1` | `at-lg:p-1` |
| `>xl:p-1` | `xl:p-1`    |

### Bracket syntax spaces

This preset uses `_` instead of `,` to respect space in bracket syntax.

| Windi CSS | UnoCSS |
|:--|:--|
| `grid-cols-[1fr,10px,max-content]` | `grid-cols-[1fr_10px_max-content]` |

Since some CSS rules require `,` as parts of the value, e.g. `grid-cols-[repeat(3,auto)]`

## Experimental Features

::: warning
This preset includes experimental features that may be changed in breaking ways at any time.
:::

### Media Hover

Media hover addresses the [sticky hover](https://css-tricks.com/solving-sticky-hover-states-with-media-hover-hover/) problem where tapping target that includes hover style on mobile will persist that hover style until tapping elsewhere.

Since the regular `:hover` style most probably used so widely, the variant uses `@hover` syntax to distinguish it from the regular `hover` pseudo.

The variant `@hover-text-red` will output:

```css
@media (hover: hover) and (pointer: fine) {
  .\@hover-text-red:hover {
    --un-text-opacity: 1;
    color: rgb(248 113 113 / var(--un-text-opacity));
  }
}
```

## Options

::: info
This preset options are inherited from [`@unocss/preset-mini`](/presets/mini#options).
:::

### important
- **Type:** `boolean | string`
- **Default:** `false`

The `important` option lets you control whether UnoCSS's utilities should be marked with `!important`. This can be really useful when using UnoCSS with existing CSS that has high specificity selectors.

::: warning
Using this option will apply important to all utilities generated by UnoCSS. You can use `important:` variant instead if you mean to apply it to specific utilities only.
:::

However, setting `important` to `true` can introduce some issues when incorporating third-party JS libraries that add inline styles to your elements. In those cases, UnoCSS's `!important` utilities defeat the inline styles, which can break your intended design.

To get around this, you can set important to an ID selector like `#app` instead:

```ts
// uno.config.ts
import { defineConfig } from 'unocss'
import presetWind from '@unocss/preset-wind'

export default defineConfig({
  presets: [
    presetWind({
      important: '#app',
    }),
  ],
})
```

This configuration will prefix all of your utilities with the given selector, effectively increasing their specificity without actually making them `!important`.

The utility `dark:bg-blue` will output:

```css
#app :is(.dark .dark\:bg-blue) {
  --un-bg-opacity: 1;
  background-color: rgb(96 165 250 / var(--un-bg-opacity));
}
```
